feat: Added comparison page for Marketplace & Building Blocks (#649)
meshcloud/meshcloud-docs: docs/marketplace.vs-building-blocks.md

---
id: marketplace.vs-building-blocks
title: Marketplace vs. Building Blocks
---

[Building Blocks](administration.building-blocks.md) are the newest capability of meshStack to repetitively roll out infrastructure
by your workspace users. Building Blocks are considered the future of doing so, and this page explains the current gaps, and

> pros and cons of using Building Blocks or the meshMarketplace.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
pros and cons of using Building Blocks or existing Service Broker capabilities. In the future Building Blocks will offer further technical implementation types such as Service Brokers.
```

The table below describes each capability and to what extent it is supported by the respective feature (Building Blocks or Marketplace)

> ✅ - supported and works well

Reviewer: ```suggestion
✅ - supported
```

🟨 - works to some extent

> ❌ - not supported at all

Reviewer: ```suggestion
❌ - not supported
```
we should mention in the cell if something is planned for future

|                                           | Building Blocks                                                                  | meshMarketplace                                                                                                       |
|-------------------------------------------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|

> | Provision resources with Terraform        | ✅ This works very easily                                                         | 🟨 Works with [UniPipe Service Broker](https://github.com/meshcloud/unipipe-service-broker), but is more work         |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Provision resources with Terraform        | ✅                                                         | 🟨 Works with [UniPipe Service Broker](https://github.com/meshcloud/unipipe-service-broker), but is more work         |
```

> | Run Custom Processes outside of Terraform | ❌                                                                                | ✅ The marketplace runs on OSB API which means you can build anything you want as long as it is compliant with OSB API |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| Run Custom Processes outside of Terraform | ❌                                                                                | ✅ The marketplace runs on OSB API which means you can build anything you want as long as the interface is compliant with OSB API |
```

> | Automated Deletion of Resource            | ✅ Terraform Building Blocks can run `tf destroy` automatically                   | 🟨 Can work, but requires your own implementation                                                                     |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Automated Deletion of Resource            | ✅ Terraform Building Blocks can run `tf destroy` automatically                   | 🟨 possible but logic needs to be included in the service broker                                                                    |
```

> | Request User Configuration                | ✅ Works, although more variable types (e.g. select) are missing at the moment    | ✅ Works with JSON schema and allows for a lot of different variations                                                 |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Request User Configuration                | ✅ further variable types such as "select" are planned   | ✅ Works with JSON schema and allows for a lot of different variations                                                 |
```

| Manage Instances via API                  | ❌                                                                                | ✅ But missing deletion of meshServiceInstances                                                                        |
| Manage Definitions via API                | ❌                                                                                | ❌                                                                                                                     |
| Custom Pricing Models                     | ❌                                                                                | ✅They can make this a part of the definition                                                                          |

> | Sandbox Development Process               | ❌ When creating a new Building Block, it is directly available to all workspaces | ✅ Developers can create a private service broker that cannot be booked by anyone else                                 |

Reviewer: I think we need to clarify what this means

Author: It means that building blocks cannot be made private first for testing purposes. Instead, it is always directly available.

> | Allow non-admins to contribute            | ❌ Only Admins can create Building Block definitions                              | ✅ Workspace users can create a service broker and get it approved to be used by everyone else in the meshStack        |

Reviewer: what does everyone else mean? An admin or really everyone

| Versioning                                | 🚧 In progress and coming soon                                                   | ❌ Not possible. There is no such thing as service versions                                                            |
| Works without cloud platforms             | ❌ Building Blocks always attach to a cloud tenant                                | ✅ The marketplace works without having a cloud tenant                                                                 |
| View all consumption in Admin Area        | ✅ There is a list with all building blocks in the Admin Area                     | ❌ There is only a list of service brokers but not service instances                                                   |
| Tag and Policy Support                    | ❌                                                                                | ❌                                                                                                                     |

> | Integration on Landing Zones              | ✅ Can be set as recommended or mandatory on a landing zone                       | ✅ for tenant-aware services, but ❌ for regular services                                                               |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Integration on Landing Zones              | ✅ Can be set as recommended or mandatory on a landing zone                       | 🟨  for tenant-aware services                                                             |
```
